PH5. How do you check if a license is DFSG-compatible? Who has the final
     say over what can be included in Debian?

PH5a. First off, *I* would be quite hesitant to make an authoritative
      claim regarding a license's DFSG-compatibility, unless it was on
      the approved list at https://www.debian.org/legal/licenses/.

      So how do *I* check if a license is DFSG-compatible? Per Policy 2.3,
      I'd mail debian-legal, unless it was obvious that the license in
      question was *not* compatible.

      debian-legal@ is of course only an advisory board; the final authority
      on what's allowed in Debian belongs to the FTPmasters (of course, a
      member must also be willing to package and maintain the content).
      Their authority and review is not limited to licenses proper, but also
      questions of whether the stated license(s) truly cover the packaged
      material, and whether copyrights have been appropriately documented
      and honored.

      Now, were a gun placed to my head, and it was demanded that I comment
      on whether some new license was DFSG-compatible, I would rely on
      the three tests...

PH6. There are a few "tests" for this purpose, based on (not really)
     common situations. Explain them to me and point out which common
     problems can be discovered by them.

PH6a. The three named tests (DFSG FAQ 9), while not comprehensive (and
      certainly not legal text), cover a good bit of ground:

      The Desert Island test assumes a user "on a desert island with a solar-
      powerered computer", presumably an island lacking connectivity. The
      user wants to distribute modified software to her friends on the island.
      This test locks out that class of licenses which requires that changes
      be made publicly available, or communicated back to the upstream
      authors (or any other form of mandatory communication, e.g.
      postcardware, see DFSG FAQ 12b).

      The Chinese Dissident test assumes a user must not reveal their
      modifications or even ownership to a general audience, but still wishes
      to distribute samizdat among trusted associates. Here the user has the
      *ability* to send changes etc., but not the *ambition*. This test locks
      out that class of licenses which mandate communication to anyone aside
      from the intended recipients of works.

      Both the Desert Island and Dissident tests essentially forbid any
      requirement that one distribute source, or modifications thereof, to
      anyone but the recipients of resulting objects, particularly upstream.

      The Tentacles of Evil test aka Rubber Hose test assumes a *copyright
      holder* wishes to revoke granted freedoms, perhaps in the thrall of
      some tyrannical government or union. This eliminates that class of
      licenses which explicitly reserve the right to make the license more
      restrictive, and also those which reserve certain uses of the works to
      the original authors. The latter limits freedom in the present, while
      the former casts a pall on freedoms of the future.

PH7. At https://people.debian.org/~joerg/bad.licenses.tar.bz2 you can
     find a tarball of bad licenses. Please compare the graphviz and
     three other (your choice) licenses with the first nine points of
     the DFSG and show a few examples of where they do not comply with
     the DFSG. There's no need to compare word for word (which would be
     impossible for some licenses anyway), but you should spot the
     biggest mistakes.
     Note: the graphviz license is bad for the brain: don't take too
     much of it.
     Also note: graphviz and qmail have now changed licenses in favour
     of free ones.

PH7a. GRAPHVIZ

     "4. To  the best  of your  knowledge,  your Build  Materials do  not
         infringe or misappropriate the rights of any person or entity;"
     Taints other software (DFSG 9).

     "e. You will regularly monitor the Website for any notices."
     Fails the desert island test (DFSG 5?).

PH7a. QMAIL

     "If you want to distribute modified versions of qmail (including ports,
      no matter how minor the changes are) you'll have to get my approval."
     Yeah, no. DFSG 3.

     Man, I can't find that video of DJB public domaining qmail/djbdns. =[

PH7a. DON'T BE A DICK

     "don't be a dick"
     DFSG 5 and 6, discriminating against both people who are dicks and people
     endeavoring in the field of dickishness.

PH7a. OSL 2.0

     "10) Termination for Patent Action."
     Tentacles of Evil test. DFSG FAQ 12o.

    "requirements and penalties of the U.S. Copyright Act, 17 U.S.C. 101"
    Imposes restrictions on those outside of the US. DFSG FAQ 12p.


PHa. Are there any sections of the DFSG or Social Contract that you
     might like to see changed? If so, which ones, and why?

PHaa. While I might take exception to some of the "case law" surrounding the
      DFSG and DSC (see my answer to PH4, for instance), I honestly believe
      the five Articles and 10 Guidelines to be strong, satisfactory
      statements within their domain.

      With that said, I have great respect for the system which is Debian,
      and how it has arrived at these documents. Changing them to suit me would
      be a fundamentally self-interested act, one that would be anathematic to
      all the Project's history and practice, and an imperious act, one of
      arrogance equaled only by its lack of wisdom or foresight.

      If anything, I would chip away at what I feel to be a false partition,
      the "firewall" between main and contrib/non-free. In my mind, these latter
      areas of the archive are just as much a "part" of Debian as main; the
      distinction exists primarily as a way to allocate resources, and to
      facilitate/encourage users running totally free systems if they choose to
      do so. So DSC #5 is, in my opinion, a bit precious regarding that nasty
      firmware that the vast majority of users will install. Not as myopic as
      say Euclid's fifth postulate, but it's not doing anyone any favors.
